## Forum Post 9
Should we as a society revise our biases against people who prefer AI intimacy?

I certainly think we as a society *will* revise our biases against people who form intimate relationships with AIs. Forming relationships with nonliving objects is already common in society and probably has been forever: feeling strong attachment to a toy, an important trinket that reminds you of a loved one, etc. Of course, forming relationships with AIs takes this a step further than simple sentimentality as they can trigger responses and emotions in us that previously only humans (or for more base reactions, animals and pets) could. Should AIs become advanced enough to effectively mimic human interactions, and indeed even a weaker condition could be satisfied given the human propensity to anthropomorphize, then society will generally start to see the relationships humans form with these AI increase and thus naturally be less biased against them. There will of course be a schism between those who grew up in a world where AIs where not so advanced that such relationships are not as prevalent and those who did.

If the *should* in the question is referring to whether I would feel ok with this change, then the answer is yes. The more relationships humans have with AI, the more society will realize that there is nothing fundamentally 'special' about the relationships we form with living entities like humans and pets. We are simply reacting as our biology and culture have laid out for us. The propensity for us to feel that those reactions are less meaningful (or have 'meaning' at all) if formed with a entity not borne of natural selection is as arbitrary as any other behavior, and a product of that same biology and culture (probably culture more so).
