## Forum Post 2
What do you consider the key features of personhood?

It seems in stating that the “[t]he capacity for suffering and enjoying things is a prerequisite for having interests”, Singer has, at least partially, defined ‘interests’. And, depending what definition of suffering Singer intended, the resulting definition of interests may run counter to the intuitive notion of interests we may already hold. Does a computer programmed to play chess have an interest in winning? If so, it must also have a capacity for suffering according to Singer. If not, why? Is it something biological in nature that demarcates the capacity to suffer? This runs counter to our notions of computability. Consider a simulation of an animal brain that we classically consider to be able to ‘suffer’. Is it unethical to cause this simulation pain? If not, this would seem to imply something immaterial existent in our flesh. A seemingly ridiculous proposition for modern science. What about a virus (or any other organism that isn't classically able to suffer) that has an 'interest' in spreading its genetic matter? It certainly does not have the capacity to suffer by most definitions and so, counter to my intuition at least, doesn't really have an interest in its own survival according to Singer.

If there is a contradiction between our normal notion of interests and Singer’s, then we can certainly assert that our intuitive notion of interests was wrong. However in doing so, we leave ourselves open to the counter “who’s to say your notion of equality and consideration of suffering wasn’t also wrong?” After all, we so arbitrarily accepted the principle of equality and then subsequently threw out interests solely on the basis of intuition. We could have just as easily took true our intuitive sense of interests and then derived some extended principle of equality that allows for it. Singer's argument would seem more like a textbook defining a mathematical structure than deriving facts of morality.

It's for this reason and because, as Singer points out, when faced with distinguishing humans from animals, philosophers "can find no concrete difference that will do the job without undermining the equality of humans", that I fail to see a compelling enough case for the existence of a non-arbitrary, singular notion of personhood. It would seem that such a concept is not just a product of our intuition, but cannot exist independent of it in a consistent way. It just seems like a useful shorthand that has evolved (both psychologically and culturally) for reasoning about the world.

Are all animals persons? At what stage in evolution do we draw the line? Wouldn't any such line be arbitrary? We certainly couldn't include the rocks on which abiogenesis took place right?

(Also in regards to Warren's definition, it is not ridiculous but seems to overdetermine what most people want to consider 'persons'. Like the mentally disabled, for example, who don't satisfy her standards.)

So depending on what groups you wish to include as 'persons' the key features and arbitrary distinctions that come with them (human vs. animal, biochemical vs. silicon, 'intelligent' vs. not, etc.) would have change to try and encompass them and only them. Trying to remove all arbitrary distinctions would leave you with everything being a person or the lack of personhood at all.
