## Forum Post 4
Do you believe it's important to distinguish between sentient and intentional systems, why or why not?

How could I even try to distinguish between them if I don't know how? Moreover how could I distinguish between them if it is excepted that there is no way to? It would appear that even if there was some hidden inner experience open to only humans (and maybe animals depending on how egalitarian we feel that day) and not any other configuration of matter, that difference can only be asserted by us. We 'feel' that *we* have it but a computer/glob of matter that does and works in the same way may not, for no other reason than "oh come on no way a mere symbol manipulator that does exactly what I do in a physically indistinguishable way could be like me!".

That said, I certainly have reason to distinguish between them. Whether its being a human myself and having a propensity for believing in my own experiences as ephemeral and not totally functional and describable as a product of physical law, or my living in a society that has its own beliefs about these vague yet seemingly intuitive concepts. The fact we use words like 'I', 'felt', 'love', etc. to even describe the problem implicitly assumes there is a 'we', a homunculus that is the true us (or a spirit or what have you). The lack of understanding of this homunculus' mechanics, of course, being brushed aside as it being part of an imaginary 'mental world'. The existence of which has no basis other than our own inability to square our 'phenomenological' experiences and senses with the, at least what I'm asserting, physical nature of the universe.

If the question boils down to "dualism (of some form) vs physicalism" then the answer seems to be one we cannot even approach. Any dualism powerful enough to support our romanticized ephemeral inner experience view wouldn't be disprovable (dumb dualism that asserts consciousness or even free will is embedded into quantum indeterminacy or something is certainly disprovable). Moreover any statement of the mechanics of its associated mental world/stuff wouldn't be falsifiable. It would just be a showstoppping "because it just is" explanation that would leave us no closer to the nature of mind than when we first starting thinking about the mind millennia ago. It would just end up being a theory of mind that we like because it sounds good or 'elegant' to our very much evolved minds. Our minds that are totally a product of natural forces, from physical law to culture, and nothing more.

The 'all things are conscious' view really cements this. In order to save this so very fundamental concept, consciousness, embedded into us over millennia of evolution, some would rather assert everything is conscious then just abandon the concept altogether. Of course, this is certainly a strawman but there are those who assert, relatively uncontroversially, that there is no free will and no consistent 'self'. If we can do so for free will and our sense of self, something which seems to deeply and unavoidably existent to us (for good evolutionary reason of course), then why can't we do the same for consciousness?