## Nova Bird Genius
1. Two species that, not just use tools, but craft them are chimpanzees and the New Caledonian crow. Chimps have been shown to strip leaves off of sticks in order to use them in eating termite mounds. More surprisingly crows (specifically the New Caledonian crow) have evolved features that make them more aptly for tool use. They crook sticks in order to hook bugs out of their mounds and trees.


2. Birds have been shown to use previous knowledge of other similar tasks to solve the task at hand. The New Caledonian crow can do this as shown in the episode. It learned how to use sticks to fetch stones and food, and then put these two separate, but related, tasks together in the larger experiment. Eurasian jays also display this by not just learning that placing rocks in a tube of water with worms on top will allow them to reach the worms, but also in knowing that this method *wouldn't* work if the tube was filled with sand.

3. The scrub jay's caching behavior tells us that they can recall the past, and their knowledge of it, in order to accomplish a task, in this case retrieving food they stored previously. Even further, assigning time frames to different types of food based on how long they take to expire shows that they don't just store food in the same usual places but really remember where is what. This is distinct from, say, bees because they distribute their stored food throughout their environment rather than localize it in some hive or home. Even further the birds actually can plan for the future by storing food, in the experiment shown, in areas where food is not guaranteed more so than areas where it is plentiful. This *mental time travel* is an indicator of intelligence.

## TedX Talk:
The talk Frans deWaal gives details his and others' research into how animals display both reciprocity (related to fairness), and empathy (related to compassion). Some important examples were how chimps opposed unequal recompense for equal actions, and how apes and even elephants can cooperate for food. This evidence along with much more done over the past decades give a clear indication that these 2 basic behaviors we associate with morality are not unique to humans and are evolved traits that can be seen in other animals as well.

## RadioLab
The topic of the podcast is the degree in which humans and animals can share emotional experiences, and if we can quantify this. They begin with an anecdote of a whale seemingly expressing thanks to her saviors. Throughout the podcast we realize that it may not be so obvious that this truly is 'thanks' in the way we feel it. Some credence is given to this thanks on the basis of *spindle cells*, which are prevalent in not just human brains but brains of animals that are very sociable. But this is called into question when we consider the raising of animals amongst humans, a condition that seems necessary for many (again seemingly) emotional tasks the animals might preform with a human. The example they give is that of dogs, without spindle cells, can preform certain emotional tasks that say chimps, with spindle cells, cannot. Overall the podcast explores the complexities and possible pitfalls of simply considering all animals as just human (or slightly less than human) as far as their emotions are concerned, rather than possibly incomparable to humans.
